---
layout: default
featured: true
github_project: nagira
license: MIT
date: 2012-06-08
title: "Nagira: RESTful API for Nagios"
categories:
  - monitoring
  - ruby
  - open-source
tags:
  - monitoring
  - ruby
  - open source
  - restful api
  - sinatra
description: |
  Nagira is Ruby/Sinatra light-weight web services API for retrieving status of Nagios application objects.

summary: |
  Nagios RESTful API. Access your Nagios server data via web.
---

h3. Users say

p<>{width: 50%}(italic). *Nagira rocks!!*
I am deploying your Nagira on top of our Nagios infrastructure in our 5 dc. around the globe. So far i feel thankful that you created this bad boy.
It's allow me to write checks in cluster point of view much easier, and I am able to combine host/cluster/service status from Nagios server around the globe into one dashboard!!!
*Patai*

h3. News

* *Mar 15, 2013 - version 0.2.5* "See more":posts/2013-03-15-nagira_v0.2.5_release


* *Jan 26, 2013* - Nagira presentation at TLUG (see below)

h2. Description

{{ page.description }}

    * Objects cache file: hosts, services, contacts, _(host|service|contact)_groups, escalations, etc.

    * Status file: hoststatus, servicestatus, etc.

h2. Usage

Use HTTP client to get object configuration or status information:

<pre>
   curl http://localhost:4567/objects/contact/list
   curl http://localhost:4567/status/list
   curl http://localhost:4567/status.json
   curl http://localhost:4567/status.xml
</pre>

or submit passive checks to Nagios:
 
<pre>
curl -X PUT -H "Content-type: application/json;" \
    -d @host_check.json http://nagios.example.com:4567/_status/web_server
    

 {
  "status_code":"0",
  "plugin_output" : "ping OK"
 }
</pre>


h2. Documenation

See "YARD documentation":doc

h3. Monitoring patterns for Nagios with Nagira API 

* "Part I: Applications with HTTP RESTful API":/2012/12/12/monitoring-patterns-I.html
* "Part II: Nagios Checks Aggregation":/2012/12/14/monitoring-patterns-II.html

h3. Nagira presentation

This presentation was given and recorded live on Tokyo Linux Users Group (TLUG) on January 26th, 2013.

* "View":http://www.ustream.tv/recorded/28811269
* "TLUG wiki":http://tlug.jp
* "Slides of the presentation":tlug-2012-01-26

