---
layout: default
---

This page contains short description of several software projects I was working on, either as part of my work assignment, or as a hobby. For soft that was developed as part of my job, it's mostly short description, and probably a couple of screenshot. If it's a hobby, then it's an open source, and there's also pointer to source code. Please feel free to use, to re-distribute, to critic and to contribute.

{% include toc.textile %}

h2. Enterprise

h3. Monitoring


{% include projects.textile %}

h2. Open Source projects

{% include perl.textile %}

h3. "OSS projects hosted on Github":http://dmytro.github.com


* WebiPhoto 

  Idea of this is very simple.  iPhoto keeps all its photos
  in well organized directories YYYY/MM/DD, creates thumbnails for all
  photos and since version 8.x also all albums' information is kept in
  Sqlite embedded database.  So, to make photos available on the web
  you just need to create couple of HTML files in iPhoto library
  directory and export data from SQL into JSON files. Of course,
  because it is called Web iPhoto you'd need to write some Javascript
  to make your app look like iPhoto.


h2. Older projects

h3. "ISpell Dictionaries":http://sourceforge.net/projects/ispell-uk/

 Created and maintained Source Forge project &mdash; Dictionary and
 affix files for the aspell, myspell, hunspell and ispell programs for
 Ukrainian language.

 Словники для перевірки правопису української мови за допомогою
 aspell, myspell, hunspell

h3. Ukrainian Translation of GPL v.2

    First Ukrainian translation of GNU v.2 General Public License into
    Ukrainian

| Language | Ukrainian |
| Year     | 2001 |
| Links    | "http://www.linux.kiev.ua/ua/devel/licenses/gnu-gpl2/":http://www.linux.kiev.ua/ua/devel/licenses/gnu-gpl2/
   "http://yarylo.sytes.net/LvivKyiivTokyo/translations/GPL-License.v.2-uk.txt":http://yarylo.sytes.net/LvivKyiivTokyo/translations/GPL-License.v.2-uk.txt |

h3. Perl For Non Programmers

Introduction to Perl programming - Перл для непрограмістів

| Language | Ukrainian |
| Year     | 2000 |
| Links    | "http://yarylo.sytes.net/LvivKyiivTokyo/Linux/perl.html":http://yarylo.sytes.net/LvivKyiivTokyo/Linux/perl.html
  "http://vesna.org.ua/txt/kovalovd/perl.html":http://vesna.org.ua/txt/kovalovd/perl.html |


h3. Archive of Ukrainian Linux resources

 Older projects of mine mostly related to use of Ukrainian language on
 Linux and Linux documentation in Ukrainian

| Language | Ukrainian |
| Years    | 1999 - 2002 |
| Links    | "On Yarylo server":http://yarylo.sytes.net/LvivKyiivTokyo/Linux/index.html |
