---
layout: default
github_project: Web-iPhoto
license: MIT
---

h1. "Web-iPhoto":https://github.com/dmytro/Web-iPhoto <span class="small">by "dmytro":/</span>

p(description). Client side web album. Use iPhoto data, photos to
browse albums in web browser. Mimics iPhoto UI in browser.

    
Web iPhoto (or  wiPhoto) is a client side  web album application. Main use  for it is  thought to  browse iPhoto  picture collections  in web browser without need of iPhoto application.

iPhoto keeps all its  photos in well organized directories YYYY/MM/DD, creates  thumbnails for  all photos  and  since version  8.x also  all albums' information is kept in  Sqlite embedded database.  So, to make photos available  on the web  you just need  to create couple  of HTML files in iPhoto  library directory and export data  from SQL into JSON files. Of course, because it is  called Web iPhoto you'd need to write 
some Javascript to make your app look like iPhoto.

h2. Features

* Web browser-only, no HTTP server
** static HTML and Javascipt files
** JSON data files generated from iPhoto embedded SQL database
** Photos are served directly from iPhoto pictures folder
** Can be backed up to CD/DVD without losing functionality
* iPhoto look-like interface
* Browse album collections, albums and view photos
* Keyboard and mouse navigation in all modes
* Fading screen tooltips:
** start/stop slideshow,
** rollover (from last picture in album to first, and vice-versa)
* Background image pre-load:
** when browsing albums and
** in slideshow mode     

h2. Documentation

"See README file":https://github.com/dmytro/Web-iPhoto/blob/master/README.md

h2. Demo

p. See "online demo":wiphoto/index.html of the Web-iPhoto browser
here.

Navigate with keyboard:
* Arrow keys: select album or photo (move selection)
* Enter: start/stop slideshow
* Space
** In albums browser: open selected album
** In album thumbnails view mode: open selected photo
** In slideshow mode: pause/restart slideshow
* Escape
** Stop slideshow
** Exit from photo view to album
** Exit from album to albums browser

