During some years I was involved with localization and internationalization of Linux OS into Ukrainian language. This included creation, development and maintaining of software base for site http://linux.org.ua, development Perl-based system for automated translation of Linux software, translating some of the popular Linux software (examples include Linux Mandrake installer, XMMS multimedia player, Gallery PHP, etc) into Ukrainian language.

Presented here are some links to the projects or software related to the above.

h3. Ispell Dictionaries

Dictionaries for use with Ispell or Aspell (or multiple other *spell's) in UNIX/Linux. 

Словники для перевірки правопису української мови за допомогою aspell, myspell, hunspell

I have created and maintained Source Forge project &mdash; Dictionary and affix files for the aspell, myspell, hunspell and ispell programs for Ukrainian language.

| Project homepage | "http://sourceforge.net/projects/ispell-uk/":http://sourceforge.net/projects/ispell-uk/ |

<hr class="thin">

h3. Ukrainian Translation of GPL v.2

This was the first Ukrainian translation of GNU v.2 General Public License into Ukrainian language.

| Language | Ukrainian |
| Year     | 2001 |
| Links    | "http://www.linux.kiev.ua/ua/devel/licenses/gnu-gpl2/":http://www.linux.kiev.ua/ua/devel/licenses/gnu-gpl2/
   "http://yarylo.sytes.net/LvivKyiivTokyo/translations/GPL-License.v.2-uk.txt":http://yarylo.sytes.net/LvivKyiivTokyo/translations/GPL-License.v.2-uk.txt |

<hr class="thin">
h3. Perl For Non Programmers

Introduction to Perl programming - Перл для непрограмістів

| Language | Ukrainian |
| Year     | 2000 |
| Links    | "http://yarylo.sytes.net/LvivKyiivTokyo/Linux/perl.html":http://yarylo.sytes.net/LvivKyiivTokyo/Linux/perl.html
  "http://vesna.org.ua/txt/kovalovd/perl.html":http://vesna.org.ua/txt/kovalovd/perl.html |


<hr class="thin">
h3. Archive of Ukrainian Linux resources

Older projects of mine mostly related to use of Ukrainian language on Linux and Linux documentation in Ukrainian

| Language | Ukrainian |
| Years    | 1999 - 2002 |
| Links    | "On Yarylo server":http://yarylo.sytes.net/LvivKyiivTokyo/Linux/index.html |

<p>
